# DotsnCross

A one-dimensional cellular automata takes in a string, which in our
case, consists of the characters '.' and 'x', and changes it according
to some predetermined rules. The rules consider three characters, which
are a character at position k and its two neighbours, and determine
what the character at the corresponding position k will be in the new
string.

For example, if the character at position k in the string  is '.' and
its neighbours are '.' and 'x', then the pattern is '..x'. We look up
'..x' in the table below. In the table, '..x' corresponds to 'x' which
means that in the new string, 'x' will be at position k.

# Rules:
\n          pattern in         position k in        contribution to
\n Value    current string     new string           pattern number
\n                                                  is 0 if replaced by '.'
\n                                                  and value if replaced
\n                                                  by 'x'
\n  1       '...'               '.'                        1 * 0
\n  2       '..x'               'x'                        2 * 1
\n  4       '.x.'               'x'                        4 * 1
\n  8       '.xx'               'x'                        8 * 1
\n 16       'x..'               '.'                       16 * 0
\n 32       'x.x'               '.'                       32 * 0
\n 64       'xx.'               '.'                       64 * 0
\n 128       'xxx'               'x'                      128 * 1
\n                                                      ----------
\n                                                           142
\n
 To calculate the patterns which will have the central character x, work
 out the values required to sum to the pattern number. For example,
 32 = 32 so only pattern 32 which is x.x changes the central position to
 an x. All the others have a . in the next line.

\n 23 = 16 + 4 + 2 + 1 which means that 'x..', '.x.', '..x' and '...' all
   lead to an 'x' in the next line and the rest have a '.'

 
\n For pattern 142, and starting string
\n ...........x...........
\n 
 
\n the new strings created will be
\n ..........xx...........  (generations = 1)
\n .........xx............  (generations = 2)
\n ........xx.............  (generations = 3)
\n .......xx..............  (generations = 4)
\n ......xx...............  (generations = 5)
\n .....xx................  (generations = 6)
\n ....xx.................  (generations = 7)
\n ...xx..................  (generations = 8)
\n ..xx...................  (generations = 9)
\n .xx....................  (generations = 10)

\n Note that the first position of the string is next to the last position
 in the string.

\n Define a procedure, cellular_automaton, that takes three inputs:
     a non-empty string,
     a pattern number which is an integer between 0 and 255 that
 represents a set of rules, and
     a positive integer, n, which is the number of generations.
 The procedure should return a string which is the result of
 applying the rules generated by the pattern to the string n times.
